{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2580
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPS-BoldMT;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;
\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red251\green0\blue7;\red251\green2\blue7;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;
\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c99985;\cssrgb\c13348\c13348\c13331;\cssrgb\c99883\c14705\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c14902\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 Eccentricity:
\f2\b0 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf4 \cb5 Eccentricity determines how close to a circle the Earth\'92s orbit is. It causes the distance between the Earth and the Sun to change throughout the year. This change in distance does not control the seasons, but assists in altering Earth's temperature during ice ages. During the last ice age, the Earth had a high eccentricity, \cb5 causing it to be far from the Sun during part of its orbit.\cf2 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 Procession:
\f2\b0 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Procession is when the axis of the Earth changes its direction like how a top wobbles when it spins. Procession changes the point in the Earth's orbit at which each season (Fall, Winter, Spring, Summer) occurs. During the last ice age, the procession of the Earth made it so the \cf4 \cb5 northern\cf8 \cb3 \'a0\cf2 summer was when the Earth was furthest from the Sun.\cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\b \cf2 \cb3 Obliquity:
\f2\b0 \cb1 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 Obliquity is the tilt of the Earth\'92s axis. Low obliquity means a shallow tilt, making the axis more vertical. When obliquity is low, less sunlight from space reaches land of the northern hemisphere. During the last ice age, the Earth had low obliquity.}